To retrieve data from our DynamoDB table,
we can use two options, the scan and query function.
It's important to understand how both of these work and what
the performance costs are for both of these.
When using the scan function, DynamoDB reads all items in your table.
You can optionally add a filter to match items
based on what you're searching for,
but all items need to be read before the filter is applied.
You can imagine that if you have a lot of items in your table,
then this operation is going to have pretty poor performance.
The cost associated to run the scan could be significant
depending on the amount of items your table has to scan and
how often you need to run the query.
The query function allows you to query items more efficiently.
To be able to use the query function to get items you want,
you need to make sure that you have set the partition and
sort key on the correct attributes.
Remember,
secondary indexes are available to allow you to create second
indexes that allow you to query with different attributes than
what was set when creating your table.
If we head back into the AWS Management Console,
we're going to add some demo data to allow me to show you how we can
scan and query from inside the AWS Management Console.
If we head over to the Items tab, and we select the Create item button,
the two attributes,
UserId and MovieName are the partition and sort key that we set earlier.
I'm going to add a UserId of 1,
and I'm going to make up a MovieName here called Fallen Names.
For the other attributes that we identified as needing for movie rank,
we will need to add the attributes before adding
the associated values for these.
So I'll add a Description for the movie,
and for Actors, we will add this as a type StringSet.
Setting this as a StringSet will store the Actors as a JSON.
Our MovieRank data model also included ranking.
This is the rating that the user thought the movie deserves.
And finally, we'll add RankedDateTime,
so we can track when the movie was ranked by the user.
I've gone ahead and added a few more movies to our database.
UserId 1 has ranked 3 movies, Fallen Names, The Blue Snow, and Triple Prejudice.
UserId 2 has ranked 2 movies, The Blue Snow and The Secret at Purple Hill.
And UserId 3 has ranked 1 movie, The Secret at Purple Hill.
Let's use the Scan function first.
Using the scan function,
we can search our database using any of the
attributes that we have set on our table.
Remember, the scan function is expensive,
and depending on how many items you have in your database,
the scan function could take a long time to complete.
If we add a Filter, and in our filter we're going to say UserId,
we're going to set the type as Number, and we're going to say equals 1.
We select Start search, and we're returned items based on our UserId of 1.
If we now set our Filter to Actors, and we set the type to String,
and we also say Contains Chris West, we hit Start search,
and we're returned actors based on the name Chris West.
Now if we switch to using the Query function,
we are able to query our database on the partition key,
which in our case is UserId.
So we can say UserId 1, and when we click Start search,
we are returned UserId 1's items.
We can optionally add a Sort key as well.
So we can enter Fallen Names, and when we click Start search again,
we are returned UserId 1's items that match the MovieName Fallen Names.
We also set up a secondary index, so we can query on the secondary index as well.
If we enter The Secret at Purple Hill, we are returned 2 items,
1 for UserId 2 and the second for UserId 3.
Remember,
the query function allows you to search your database more
efficiently than if you were to use the scan function.
This is because items are stored and grouped together
based on the partition and sort key.
So your aim is to make sure that any queries that will be done often on your table uses the query function rather than the scan function.